{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Tracking Post-Purchase Behavior\par
 You may have put a lot of effort into getting that customer to make a purchase, but it\rquote s just as important to put additional effort into turning that customer into a repeat and loyal customer. Not only can that customer make additional purchases from you, but he or she also just might recommend your business, which could lead to even more customers.\par
Customers move into a phase in which you provide service, support, and fulfilling the promises made during the pre-purchase process.\par
During this phase, customers can move toward being loyal or less loyal, reconsider the competition, and even be negative influencers. This can lead to an improvement in the perception of the brand or its degradation. This outcome of the post-purchase phase will influence the next purchase consideration for the current customer and for other potential customers as they become influenced by positive and negative word of mouth in person or on social media.\par
In the post-purchase phase, you continue to measure customers\rquote  attitudes, especially customer satisfaction, brand and product loyalty, and future intent.\par
\b Dealing with Cognitive Dissonance\par
\b0 In the post-purchase phase, you either confirm or alter the ideas and beliefs customers have of you from the pre-purchase and consideration phases. The mismatch between customers\rquote  expectations and their actual experience leads to delight or disappointment and cognitive dissonance.\par
Cognitive dissonance describes the mental discomfort people feel when their actions and beliefs don\rquote t align. In this case, the beliefs or attitudes are that the product was not a good value and didn\rquote t do what they believed \f1\emdash  in other words, buyer\rquote s remorse.\par
Three of the main causes of cognitive dissonance are\par
\par
\b Value:\b0  The price or total payment cost isn\rquote t worth what was paid.\par
\b Quality:\b0  The product or service doesn\rquote t perform as expected, is missing features, or breaks.\par
\b Better alternatives:\b0  Buyer\rquote s remorse is more intense when a customer has rejected a lot of alternative products.\par
\b REDUCING DISSONANCE\par
\b0\f0 Customers with cognitive dissonance will take actions to reduce it, which can mean returning a product, spreading negative word of mouth, or not purchasing the product again. Look for evidence of cognitive dissonance, and where possible, correct and prevent it so positive emotions are associated with the purchase and brand.\par
Customers with high cognitive dissonance can do several things.\par
\par
\b Take no action:\b0  The consumer gets over her dissonance (but likely remembers for future purchases).\par
\b Cancel or return the product:\b0  This results in a lost sale and cost of handling the return.\par
For service agreements such as software maintenance contracts, mobile phone service, or cable TV, the cancellation of a customer represents a major loss because of the loss of recurring revenue (see Chapter 6 on calculating customer lifetime value). To keep this customer, offer future discounts or more channels to prevent a cancellation, and assuage dissonance.\par
When customers return a product, you have to track the return rate. See the upcoming section on dealing with returns.\par
\par
\b Purchase another product:\b0  Although the sale is made, the relationship with the company and future purchases are in jeopardy.\par
\b Contact customer support or customer service representatives:\b0  This costs your company money in terms of time spent listening to the customer and fixing the problem.\par
\b remember.eps\b0  How you handle customers through customer service is vitally important. You have the opportunity to turn a dissatisfied customer into a satisfied one, which could lead to a loyal repeat customer.\par
\b Take legal action:\b0  Probably the worst outcome, customers feeling like they need to sue to get out of a contract or get their money back.\par
\b TURNING DISSONANCE INTO SATISFACTION\par
\b0 Product warranties, free return policies, free shipping, and free return shipping help reduce the changes for dissonance.\par
To address customers\rquote  dissonance, each of these reasons can be addressed using the following approaches.\par
\par
Offer a better value. Change the price or increase the offerings for the same price.\par
Improve quality. Improving quality is easier said than done. Identify the root cause of the quality concern, whether it be features or performance.\par
tip.eps One way to diagnose the root causes of problems is a cause-and-effect diagram. Turn to the later section \ldblquote Finding the Root Cause with Cause-and-Effect Diagrams\rdblquote  for more information.\par
\par
Confirm the initial choice. Messaging, in email newsletters, ads, and follow-up calls, reassures customers that they made the right choice and that the purchase does conform to their attitudes and beliefs.\par
More information about marketing options to reduce cognitive dissonance can be found in Marketing For Dummies, by Alexander Hiam (Wiley).\par
\b TRACKING RETURN RATES\par
\b0 One of the actions customers can take is to return a product. A return guarantee is key to alleviating cognitive dissonance, but it can be expensive to maintain if you suffer a spate of returns.\par
\par
warning.eps When a product is returned, it not only represents a lost sale, but increased costs in repackaging (or an unsalable item) and the logistics to handle the returns.\par
\par
Once a customer returns a product, there isn\rquote t much that can be done for that customer, but you can learn a lot to prevent future returns.\par
\par
\b Collect the return rates, dates, and details.\par
Look to other clues that can predict the root cause of returns.\par
Predict the return rates based on patterns in the root causes.\par
Measuring the Post-Purchase Touchpoints\par
\b0 The data you collect in the post-purchase phase aids in understanding how well the experience is at each stage and also how to improve the experience for current and future customers. It could be that customers had great first impressions but had a poor service experience. Measuring at different post-purchase touchpoints helps identify opportunities for improvement.\par
To easily collect data, establish a feedback loop. Problems, frustrations, and improvements are properly channeled back to the product development teams.\par
One of the quickest ways to identify opportunities for improvement is to ask customers in a post-purchase survey their level of satisfaction with each of the touchpoints.\par
\par
Keep the surveys short and ask a mix of open- and closed-ended questions. You should include:\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 An overall measure of satisfaction about the product or experience, using a rating scale \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}More detailed questions about each touchpoint (also using a rating scale)\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Questions about future intent, such as likelihood to recommend or likelihood to repurchase\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Open-ended questions for customers to describe in their own words their feelings (both positive and negative) about the experience and specifically how they\rquote d improve the product.\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 DIGGING INTO THE POST-PURCHASE TOUCHPOINTS\par
Shipping and delivery:\par
\b0 When customers decide to purchase something, they want it right away. For an in-store purchase, this isn\rquote t much of an issue when the item is in stock. For catalog and Internet purchases, the delay of receiving the goods attenuates the impulsiveness of the purchase decisions. Customers set firm expectations about when they expect a product to arrive. \par
\b Unboxing\par
\b0 The experience of removing a product from its package is one of the first physical touchpoints you have to influence the emotional conection a customer has with the brand.\par
\b Installation and setup\par
\b0 For many products, after the unboxing experience, the setup and installation process defines the first moments of the post-purchase phase. A lot of customers lose enthusiasm for a product after unsuccessfully trying to get it to work. Asking about the installation and setup experience in your post-purchase surveys helps identify how much this step influences customers\rquote  overall attitudes and future intent. It also helps identify problems that can be addressed.\par
\b Customer support\par
\b0 Customer support is one of the most common post-purchase touchpoints. This usually consists of a call center, email support, or online chat feature.\par
Customer support is not just an opportunity to satisfy a current customer by addressing a question or complaint; it\rquote s also an opportunity to delight a customer by exceeding her expectations. This leads to more loyal customers.\par
\b Feature usage\par
\b0 It\rquote s often the case that customers will purchase a product for a set of features during the consideration phase, but use only a subset in the post-purchase phase. Collect data about which features of the product customers are actually using and those they are not using. Also ask what features are missing that they would like\b .\par
Finding the Root Cause with Cause-and-Effect Diagrams\par
\b0 Many problems in the post-purchase phase are often symptoms of other problems:\par
Customer complaints\par
Returns\par
Calls to customer support\par
Low customer satisfaction ratings\par
\par
}
 